[MUSIC PLAYING]
>>REGINA MEREDITH:
Every so often,
I encounter someone with
such a profound understanding
of their subject
that it inspires.
Randall Carlson is
a 37-year Freemason
who has devoted his life
to the true understanding
of the sacred effects of
geometry, geology, geomancy,
and several other disciplines.
His knowledge has been
embedded in his work
as an architectural
designer and master builder.
His goal is to revive lost
knowledge and human dignity
toward the goal of
creating a new world based
on harmony, freedom,
and spiritual evolution.
So right off the top, I
said you're a Freemason.
So some people, oh, Freemason?
Because there are so
many conspiracy theories
about all of the
secret societies.
So what I wanted to
do is just set you
up first by talking about
your own life, what took you
into Freemasonry,
what it actually
is compared to what conspiracy
theorists might believe
it is, and the implications,
because we hear
things in weird rituals,
say, for example,
with skull and bones.
>>RANDALL CARLSON: Sure.
>>REGINA: So just launch in
and tell us about yourself
for a while.
>>CARLSON: Well, my
interest in Freemasonry
goes back to the early
'70s when I really
got into studying
ancient architecture
and realized that there was
a body of encoded knowledge.
And we could find it in many
continents, most succinctly
preserved, I think, in
European architecture,
and it was predominantly
in the Gothic cathedrals
where we found it.
But it goes all the
way back to Egypt.
It goes back to Sumeria.
We find it in Southeast Asia.
We find in pre-Columbian
Mesoamerica.
And what we basically
find is that architecture
had a symbolical function.
And that's what very
much intrigued me,
was this idea that there
was information encoded
in buildings, in
structures, in the design,
in their orientation
to the world
and to the cosmos at large.
And so as I got into the idea
of symbolical architecture,
I would encounter over and
over again the Freemasonic
Order and the idea
that there had
been a tradition throughout
history of preserving knowledge
and a methodology for
encoding this knowledge
into these great
works of architecture.
I had been studying this
stuff for about five years,
and then I just happened to
meet a couple of Freemasons.
One was writing a book.
The other one was very much
of an esoteric Freemason.
And they sponsored me
into the fraternity.
So I was initiated
in 1978 and have been
an active Freemason since then.
I rose through the ranks
and became master of one
of the largest lodges
in Georgia in 1999.
And to me, it's a very
gratifying association.
But when I got into it all
of this conspiracy stuff
didn't exist.
This is something that's
come along with the internet.
And-- excuse me-- but I try to
point out that Freemasonry, now
that I've known hundreds
and hundreds of Freemasons,
not one that I've
known has been involved
in any kind of conspiracy.
But it's easy to
invoke conspiracy
when you're talking about a,
quote unquote, "secret order."
And really, there's not too much
that's secret about it anymore.
I mean, you can go online,
and the whole ritual
is there for somebody
who wants to get into it.
And in fact, even going
back to the 19th century
there were exposes where the
ritual had been published.
But you have to understand
that the secrecy goes back
to the Middle Ages when
heretics were being crucified,
when they were being
burned at the stake.
And basically, any
kind of an organization
that had the appearance
of being heretical
could undergo
immense suppression.
And so there was a time--
there have been many times when
Freemasonry has been outlawed.
When Stalin took over in the
Soviet Union, it was outlawed.
When Hitler took
over in Germany,
Freemasonry was outlawed.
When Mao took over in
China, it was outlawed.
And so there's a long
history of suppression.
But what Freemasons are
really all about is, I think,
primarily two things-- doing
good works and preserving this
corpus of symbolism that
we've inherited from--
>>REGINA: Very ancient times.
>>CARLSON: --the ancient
world, very ancient times, yes.
And I mean, I think they've
just gotten a bad rap.
I mean, if you look
at American history,
yes, Freemasons were certainly
involved in the revolution,
but it wasn't a Masonic
enterprise per se.
It was that a lot of the people
involved In it were, in fact,
Masons, but a lot
of them weren't.
And if you look at the history
of Freemasony in this country,
you'll see that, I think, it was
14 of the American presidents
have been Freemasons.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARLSON: The last
Masonic president,
do you have any idea who it was?
>>REGINA: No, who?
>>CARLSON: Gerald Ford.
Gerald Ford.
>>REGINA: Seriously?
>>CARLSON: We have not
had a Masonic president
since Gerald Ford.
>>REGINA: OK.
No, I should have known
that, but I didn't know that.
>>CARLSON: And prior to him was
Harry Truman, and prior to him
was FDR.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARLSON: But I
like to point out
that 22 of the
American presidents
have been Episcopalians.
So if we're going to invoke
conspiracies and "puppet
masters," it's clearly going
to be the Episcopalians
more so than the Freemasons.
>>REGINA: Well, that is
interesting in and of itself.
But I think that you take us
down a whole different rabbit
hole than where we're going.
>>CARLSON: But I think
you get my point.
>>REGINA: I do.
Yes.
>>CARLSON: So if we
look at recent history,
we don't really see
too many Freemasons
in positions of power.
>>REGINA: Why is that?
>>CARLSON: I think,
for one thing,
Freemasonry has
been-- its membership
has been on the decline
since its peak in the 1950s.
And at the time,
coming out of World War
II, a lot of the individuals
who were in positions of power
also happened to be Freemasons.
OK?
But then it's just as the
generations have turned over--
I think my generation, not
nearly as high a percentage
of individuals my age became
members of the fraternity
as, say, my father's
and grandfather's age.
And things changed.
Before the advent of television
and all of the various things
that occupied us in the
post-World War II era,
there weren't a
whole lot of outlets
for social
interactivity and so on.
And so I think it had
a lot of popularity
simply for that reason,
if no other reason.
>>REGINA: Well,
like the Shriners,
Elks Lodge,
Oddfellows, there were
a lot of different
groups at the time.
>>CARLSON: Now, the Shriners,
I should mention, actually they
are all Freemasons.
In fact, it is a
prerequisite to be
a member in good standing
of the Masonic Fraternity
in order to become a Shriner.
And they usually
referred to the Shrine
as the playground of the Lodge.
And that was actually my
first exposure to the craft
was that my grandfather used
to take me to the Shrine Circus
as a little kid.
I had no idea--
>>REGINA: That's what
I remember as a kid is
the Shriners and the parades and
giving money to the children's
hospitals and so forth.
>>CARLSON: Yeah.
And they raised
millions of dollars
for, like you just mentioned,
the children's hospitals,
the Scottish Rite Hospital for
crippled and burned children
in New York-- Rite Hospital.
And they subsidized
for, I mean, orphanages
all over the country.
And so they raised
huge amounts of money
for charitable purposes.
And that, I think, is one of
the most important functions
that they do.
And the other function is
that they preserve this corpus
of knowledge, as I mentioned.
And it's certainly, I
think, apparent that not
that many Freemasons
really understand
the full depth of the symbolism
that they're entrusted with.
>>REGINA: That's
what I was going
because when you talk about
the notion of secrecy,
this goes back to the temples
from the most ancient times,
where that knowledge
wasn't necessarily shared
with the public at large.
>>CARLSON: Correct.
>>REGINA: It was to be
used for high purpose
with integrity at the time.
And that's not to say, as
with everything else in life,
there weren't corrupt forces
that also sprang out of it
or had access to some
of the knowledge.
That's just the human condition.
But the intention
was to preserve
knowledge that was sacred,
was sacred for a purpose.
>>CARLSON: And there's no
question that an ambitious
individual seeking to
gain advantage in society
wouldn't or couldn't utilize
these kinds of venues to expand
their network, to--
>>REGINA: Expand their
power base, yeah.
>>CARLSON: To expand
their power base, yeah.
And my suspicion is, from what
I know about Franklin Roosevelt,
that that was kind of his
motivation for getting
involved.
But on the other
hand, you have a lot
of individuals who are
just there primarily
to do the charitable work.
And what I've seen
recently is that there
seems to be a sort of
a revival of interest
in the esoteric parts of
the craft, which I think is
a very important development.
And recently, I'd say
within the last 10 years,
we've brought in a lot of
younger brothers in their 20s
and 30s that are
very much interested
in the meanings and the--
what is behind this symbolism?
>>REGINA: Which it makes
sense because the desire
for this kind of
knowledge is kind
of rising in general
through the public at large.
So of course, people are
going to find wherever there
are saturated amounts
of that information,
they'll be attracted to it.
So this is a good thing?
>>CARLSON: Yes, I would say so.
And recently, I mean, with
the internet and with books
like "The Da Vinci
Code" and things,
it has helped to popularize and
bring to more popular attention
the existence of the craft.
It's just they're an
easy target because they
don't seek to engage in a
public debate or discourse.
And so they're an
easy target for those
who want to start pulling
all kinds of strands together
to try to build this case for
conspiracy, or Illuminati,
or whatever you want to call it.
Personally I don't buy it.
I believe that there
are conspiracies.
I just don't
believe that there's
a grand conspiracy where
there's one unified
plan for global domination.
Because even amongst
the elites, there
are differing,
conflicting agendas,
and that's just the reality.
>>REGINA: It is.
And that's a really
important point
because people in
general, I notice,
are very comfortable
with assigning
the full range of human
traits and desires and agendas
to people at the middle to
lower socioeconomic range.
But not so much when you
go to the top of that range
socioeconomically.
People start getting pasted
with just specific agendas, when
it's as varied across the
board, whether you know how
to use power and money
and have it mastered
or whether you're a pauper.
It doesn't matter.
It seems to be the same
spectrum of human behavior
for good and for worse.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
Yes.
And I would like
to see Freemasonry
restored to a position
of respectability.
And the only way that
that's going to happen
is just basically through
knowledge, people becoming
informed, and not
taking this simple path
of-- because it is, it's a
very oversimplified model.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARLSON: And I
would always say--
>>REGINA: They with a
capital T. We've all done it.
Whoever "they" are,
whatever is obstructing
what it is that you
would like to see happen
becomes part of "they."
>>CARLSON: "They."
Yes, that undefined "they."
Who are they?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so part of, I think,
what went down here
in terms of discrediting
is Skull and Bones
and information that got out.
Then Bush, Baby
Bush, people thought
how sophisticated could this
be if Baby Bush is in there?
>>CARLSON: Yeah, right.
>>REGINA: And then you got
Kerry and everybody else.
So talk about Skull and
Bones compared to the Masons.
>>CARLSON: I'm not that
informed on Skull and Bones,
other than the fact that
they're a fraternity.
They're a Yale fraternity.
They have adopted
quasi-Masonic rituals.
But they have really no
affiliation with Freemasonry
at all, other than the
fact that, yeah, I'm
sure that if you went
through and started plumbing
the rolls of membership,
you could find here's
some Skull and Bones members
that became Freemasons, right?
But as organizations,
they basically
have nothing to do
with each other.
They do have some parallels, I
think, in symbolism, I think--
>>REGINA: Ritual.
>>CARLSON: --because in all
of the rituals of the mystery
traditions, they all
incorporate this idea of death
and resurrection, right?
They all do, see?
>>REGINA: And that's
an interesting topic.
I interviewed Freddy
Silva, and his new book
called "The Lost
Art of Resurrection"
that talks about this
in some great depth.
And it's an absolutely
fascinating subject
because it's not necessarily
what we think it is.
>>CARLSON: Right.
It's not necessarily
what we think it is.
And my take on
that is essentially
that it's a
recapitulation of what,
on an individual level, what
our species has undergone.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARLSON: Our
species has undergone
a death and resurrection,
maybe even more than once.
And we'll get into that
discussion down the road here.
>>REGINA: Yeah, OK.
Well, so that's just
setting up who you are
and why you became involved.
And obviously, you
then applied it
through your
highly-developed skills
as an architectural
designer and builder.
>>CARLSON: To the extent
that I've been able to.
The thing is, is when you're
out there in the marketplace,
you're very much having
to sell a project.
>>REGINA: That's true.
>>CARLSON: And for me, I
consider it very fortuitous
if I get somebody as
a client who says,
yeah, let's incorporate
some sacred geometry.
Let's incorporate some
symbolism into this project.
More and more now, as
I'm getting out there
and people are becoming
more aware of this,
that there is this possibility,
the interest is increasing.
So I'm hoping even
doing things like this,
what we're doing right here,
to increase the interest
to let people know that there
is kind of a revival of this,
if you will, technology
or this methodology that
has this long history going back
to the very dawn of our written
history.
I mean, we see that
architecture was
a means of conveying
symbolical information
from the very beginning
of our history.
But it also was more than that.
I think, it, in
effect, served almost
as a sort of a technology.
>>REGINA: I think
you're right on that.
>>CARLSON: I mean, this gets
into the term you used earlier,
geomancy, the idea that there
are forces in the planet,
whether you want
to look at those
in terms of geomagnetic forces,
or telluric energies, whatever
you want to call those.
It's clear that the
planet itself is
suffused with an energy field.
There's gravity forces, and
there's geomagnetic forces,
and these are subject to
all kinds of processes.
I think one of the
main ones would
be astronomical in
that our planet is
part of a larger system.
>>REGINA: And you look at it--
if you were to look at it,
if you were to be able
to see it physically,
whether it's on earth or
whether it's the cosmos,
we're talking
about grid systems.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
We're talking
about grid systems.
about-- the idea here
is fractal self-similarity.
And in effect, you
mentioned earlier the quote
that I like to use by
Protagoras, which is "Man
is the measure of all things."
>>REGINA: Yeah, I
love that quote,
but I want you to
really explain it to us.
>>CARLSON: Well, the idea
is is that the geometry
of the cosmos, the
geometry of the earth,
essentially is the
geometry of us.
And we are, each one of
us, a walking embodiment
of sacred geometry.
And well, we can give
some simple examples.
If we take the
traditional cubit, which
comes from the Latin
cubitus which means forearm,
right, it was the distance
from elbow to fingertip, right?
Now, I think at this
stage of the game,
everybody's heard of the golden
section, the divine proportion,
right?
Well, in mathematical
terms, it's simply the idea
that if you have-- we'll
start with the simplest, which
is a line.
And we can divide that
line in such a way
that we create two
asymmetrical lengths.
We divide it down the middle.
They're both equal, and that's
a static division, right?
Now, if we move off that middle,
we've created an asymmetry,
right?
And there's going
to be a relationship
between the small part
and the large part.
But there's one place where
we can make that division such
that the relation of the
small part to the large part
is exactly the same
as the relation
of the large part to the total.
That's the golden section.
>>REGINA: So then it goes
back into its symmetry.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
Now, in the human anatomy,
if we take the cubit, elbow
to fingertip, that distance--
if you feel right now,
Regina, on your wrist,
feel your finger up there.
And if you feel around,
there will be a little space.
That space is called
the space of Destot.
That right there
in your wrist joint
divides your cubit in that
golden section relationship.
You see?
>>REGINA: What's the ratio?
>>CARLSON: The ratio
in numerical terms
is 1.618 rounded off.
>>REGINA: OK.
So the standard
golden-- yes, ratio.
>>CARLSON: Right.
1.61803.
>>REGINA: And so that is a
living example of that ratio.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
But that's just one example.
Now, if you look at your
fingers-- take your fingertip,
look at this.
The first digit from
tip to first knuckle,
then from first knuckle
to second knuckle,
is exactly that
same relationship.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARLSON: If you're
standing up and you're
letting your arms hang
loosely at your sides
where your fingertips touch
your thighs, that divides
your whole height so that
the large part is on top,
the small is on the bottom.
Now, if you take
your whole height,
and you measure from
the floor to your head
and divide it by
this golden section,
and you put the small
section at the top,
then that division
defines your navel center.
And it goes.
I mean, it's in the
structure of the face.
Yeah, I mean, there's dozens
and dozens of different ways
that that particular ratio
manifests in the human anatomy.
But we find it expressed
throughout all life forms
in some form or another.
And here's what's
interesting, is
that it seems that the more
evolved the life form, the more
saliently that ratio appears.
So you can find it in
a horse, but it's not
found as much as you find
it in the human anatomy.
You can find it in
flowers and in plants.
It's also found in certain
mathematical sequences, one
being the Fibonacci--
>>REGINA: Fibonacci
sequence, yes.
>>CARLSON: --where each
number in that sequence
is the sum of the
two that came before.
And in effect, geometrically
it's the same thing,
as we're saying that
here's this total length,
and it's the sum of
this and this, see?
And when you take the numbers
of the Fibonacci sequence--
it would start out 1, 1, 2, 3,
5, 8, 13, 21, 34, 55, 89, 144,
et cetera, and each
one of those numbers
is the sum of the
two proceeding.
And if you take them as a
ratio of each successive pair,
5 over 3, 8 over 5, 13
over 8, what you then see
is you take the decimal value
of that ratio, and as a limit
it approaches the
golden section.
But it never gets there exactly.
It just keeps getting
closer and closer and closer
the bigger your numbers are.
So 144 over 89 is going to be
closer than say 55 over 34.
And as you keep going
through that sequence,
you're going to get
closer and closer,
but you'll never
actually get there
until you're out
somewhere in infinity.
And at that point, it converges.
"Asymptotically" is
the term that you
would use mathematically.
>>REGINA: OK.
So what's arising in my
mind is, on one level,
the nature of life on
this planet in the cosmos
in this sense is asymmetrical.
>>CARLSON: It has to be.
>>REGINA: Yet the
Platonic solids,
and for the most part in what
we find ourselves resonating
with for our own
comfort, sometimes even
for our own
orientation, maybe even
to drop away from a sense
of chaos, is symmetry.
>>CARLSON: Symmetry.
>>REGINA: So let's talk
about the interface
between the essential
asymmetry building--
the asymmetrical
building blocks of life
and the need for such symmetry.
>>CARLSON: The problem--
perfect symmetry is static.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARLSON: You have to
have some asymmetry.
Asymmetry is dynamic.
>>REGINA: Yes, right.
>>CARLSON: That's what
sets things into motion.
It's the tension that occurs
between the asymmetrical parts
of a system.
As soon as you've got
this perfect symmetry,
then things fall into balance
and they become static.
There's no further--
>>REGINA: That's
true, and it seems
that we're often seeking that.
For example, if you have,
say, a person's face
that is terribly
asymmetrical, things are not
in a normal proportion,
for example,
you can't reconcile yourself.
It's very difficult to
even orient yourself
toward another person
just because something
might be asymmetrical.
>>CARLSON: But on
the other hand,
if you saw a face that
was perfectly symmetrical,
it wouldn't look right.
>>REGINA: You wouldn't see them.
You wouldn't see them.
It'd be background noise.
>>CARLSON: Nobody has a
perfectly symmetrical face.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah.
>>CARLSON: Everybody's-- things
are a little different from one
side to the other.
And that's, I think, part of the
dynamism of organic existence.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I mean, I was just
reflecting on it
because of such beautiful
symmetry in the Platonic solids
and the various forms
of geometry that
are used to create structure.
>>CARLSON: Right.
Right.
And I wish I had my models here.
I oftentimes work with models.
>>REGINA: I know.
You don't have your toys here.
>>CARLSON: I don't
have my toys, no.
I'm grasping for invisible toys.
But the set of five
Platonic solids,
they actually have a
nesting relationship
that is embodied in
the golden section.
So that you can start out
with the simplest ones-- well,
if you start out
with an icosahedron,
and then you expand
it in a certain way--
and it's difficult to
explain-- but it grows
by an additive and a geometric
process simultaneously,
which is based upon
the golden section.
And the dodecahedron to me,
which is the most beautiful
of the Platonic solids, is 12--
>>REGINA: 12, yeah.
>>CARLSON: --pentagonal faces.
Now, the pentagon is like
the pure geometric embodiment
of the golden section.
If you look at a pentagon
with five sides, right,
and you connect alternate
vertices, you get a pentagram.
The relationship of one
side of the pentagram--
it's a five-pointed star--
to one side of the pentagon
is the perfect golden
section relationship, see?
And traditionally,
the five has always
been the numerical
representative
of the human domain.
We have our five fingers,
our five appendages, our five
senses.
And of course, we're based
upon the golden section, which
is derived from the relationship
between-- it's actually
the square root of
5 plus 1 cut in 1/2.
The square root of 5
plus 1 divided by 2
gives you the golden section.
And so the golden
section is derived
not from two, or three
or four, but from five.
Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
So I have a quick question, OK?
>>CARLSON: OK.
>>REGINA: It's just from
architecture, and just
for a moment here
before we start
moving on to what these
sacred numbers have meant
and how we've
misinterpreted them.
So for right now,
from what we've just
talked about about
form, geometry,
these ratios such as the golden
ratio, what is the most--
and I know everybody's
different-- but what
would be an ideal structure
for a human being to live in?
>>CARLSON: Well, this
has been, I think,
one of the goals of
architects for generations
and generations.
I don't think it's
going to be found
in modernist architecture--
>>REGINA: No, I don't think so.
I mean, it's a little
bit of a loaded question,
but I'm curious.
>>CARLSON: --or brutalist.
Well, the architect Le
Corbusier developed a system
that he called a modular
that was essentially
based on the height
of a 6-foot man,
and then derivative from that
were all of the golden section
relationships.
That might be one place to
start, one place to experiment.
I think when you look
at temple architecture
throughout history,
what you're trying
to do is-- I used
the term earlier,
"fractal self-similarity."
Or another term that kind of
applies to the same concept
is scale invariance.
The idea here is that
the temple serves
as a mean between two domains,
the human domain and the larger
domain of the landscape and
ultimately the planet itself.
And the idea is that-- like
the brutalist architecture,
the architectures they had
in fascist Germany was very--
>>REGINA: Oh, my god.
>>CARLSON: --monumental.
>>REGINA: It's so horrible.
>>CARLSON: And it was not at all
derived from the human scale.
It was meant to
overpower and intimidate.
That was the psychological
objective of it.
Now, on the other hand,
I think like if you
take the work of somebody like
Christopher Alexander, who
has developed a whole
pattern language based
upon a whole sort of an organic
architecture derived ultimately
from the human scale.
And this was sort of pioneered
by Frank Lloyd Wright.
And he was the one
who developed the term
of "organic
architecture," the idea
that the scale of the
structure should somehow
relate to the human scale.
And whether he deliberately
incorporated dynamic symmetry
and sacred geometry
into his architecture,
he probably didn't.
But he had such an
intuitive sense about it
that it's there in many
examples of his buildings.
And I think that
that's what we're
trying to do here is
that the building serve
as a medium between the human
scale and the larger scale.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And even if you're a sensitive
being, a human being,
you can feel.
I mean, for example, I was in
an apartment that was very,
to me, brutal, just
cold, right angles
with the very trendy lofty thing
with your big ducting, aluminum
pipes running
across the ceiling.
>>CARLSON: Very industrial.
>>REGINA: Industrial
markings on the ceiling
that the workers
intentionally didn't cover up
when they left or were raised.
And the feeling on
the mind was horrible.
Where in my home,
for example, there
are very few right
angles and lots
of archways, loads of archways.
Even windows are arched.
And there, people
walk in and say--
I had this one kid
who was 16 years old
one time was just
kind of loping along.
And he came into the
house, and he stopped cold
and he goes, dude, you
can breathe in here.
And the whole notion
of breath and movement
in these circular spaces,
like Steiner's Goetheanum,
the original Goetheanum.
>>CARLSON: Yes,
there's a good example.
>>REGINA: OK.
Talk about that.
>>CARLSON: Well, I'm
not an expert on that,
other than the fact that I'm
sure that he was attempting
to embody that principle, the
principle that the building
itself incorporated
organic form and then
served as that mean that
allowed humans to access
a higher level of things.
I mean, this is what we find
in all sacred architecture
throughout history from all
over the world, this idea
that there is a pattern
there, and that pattern
is reflective of some
higher order of things.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
You could say the
cosmic egg, in a sense,
and his interlocking
domes are a beehive,
which is also symbolic in a lot
of these ancient traditions.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
And in fact, the beehive is a
very prominent Masonic symbol--
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>CARLSON: --which you find--
>>REGINA: That's
why I brought It up.
>>CARLSON: Yeah, yeah.
But we see that
there is a pattern.
And oftentimes, for most of the
time if not all of the time,
that pattern is a reflection
of the higher cosmic patterns.
So Sedona is a good example.
If you go just to
the east of Sedona,
you're in the Chacoan territory,
which covered the whole San
Juan Basin.
Now, the Chacoan people had
a civilization or a culture
based upon a cosmic pattern
whose center, whose locus,
was Chaco Canyon itself.
But outlying from
Chaco Canyon are
all of the temples, the
signal towers, various effigy
locations, sites of pilgrimage.
And so what's interesting
that if you actually
trace the pathways of
this pattern, which
covers at least 10,000 square
miles, what you're effectively
doing is translating
a cosmic pattern
onto the surface of the Earth.
And so if you're
doing a pilgrimage
from Chaco Canyon to some
of the outlying areas,
there's a very interesting--
not too far from here,
near Durango is a place
called Chimney Rock.
Have you ever heard of it?
>>REGINA: I've heard
of Chimney Rock.
I've never been there, though.
>>CARLSON: It's worth going to.
It's a celestial
observatory that was
part of this Chacoan system.
And if you go along
these pathways
that link these various sacred
centers in this Chacoan system,
what you're in effect doing
is you're tracing on Earth
the pathways of the sun
and the moon and key
stars as they would translate
to the Earth itself.
So in some cases, you might
be following a pathway,
and where that
pathway intersects
the line of the horizon
might be the exact position
on the horizon
where the moon will
set in its maximum northerly
limit every 18.61 years.
So if you know that
time and you're
making that journey,
that pilgrimage,
you're essentially
following the moon.
And as you're siting the
distant horizon, which
is the objective
of your pilgrimage,
the moon is either going
to be rising or setting
at that position.
And it's only going to
be at that position,
say, once every 18.6 years,
and that is quite remarkable
Now, that's very
similar to what we find
all over the ancient world.
The Gothic cathedrals that
were dedicated to Notre Dame
create an effigy on the
landscape of northern France
of the constellation of Virgo,
which is interesting and hardly
coincidental that those very
cathedrals were dedicated
to the Virgin.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CARLSON: And so here you
have a star map translated
onto the landscape of France.
I think that Scott Onstott has
talked about that, I believe.
>>REGINA: Yes.
We talked about that.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
Scott has gone really far into
deciphering these patterns.
>>REGINA: Yes, he's
doing really good work.
>>CARLSON: Yeah.
It's good stuff.
And it's easier for the skeptic,
the reductionist thinker,
to say, oh, you're just
playing with numbers.
But what the
Pythagoreans understood
was that God played
with numbers.
>>REGINA: OK.
So now we get to the heart
of this conversation.
As I was going
through your work--
we're going to just
talk about, say,
three numbers, the
most common ones people
will have heard about.
But let's go first to the number
9 because the number of thing--
here, I have copious notes--
the number of things that
reduce to the number 9 and the
numerological value of what
number 9 means is
really shocking when
people start looking into it.
So I would like you
to share with us all
of the different numerics that
reduce to 9 on this planet
and in the cosmos and
in time and in space.
>>CARLSON: Oh, my goodness.
Well, kabbalistically, the
number 9 symbolizes completion.
It's completion of the
decad before we start
a new cycle on a higher level.
Now we're at 10.
But so counting the
numbers 1 through 9, right?
And the sacred alphabets were
based on this denary system,
where the Hebrew alphabet, for
example, started with aleph,
and when you got to
yud, it was 10, right?
But then each letter would
represent a numerical value,
as did the Greek alphabet.
See this is pre-Arabic numeral
system, Hindu-Arabic numeral
system, where now we've got one
set of symbols for our numbers
and one set of symbols
for our alphabet.
>>REGINA: It was
one and the same.
>>CARLSON: One and the same.
>>REGINA: They had
the same value.
>>CARLSON: They had
the same value, yeah.
So an aleph was 1, a bet was
2, gimel was 3, dalet was 4.
>>REGINA: And classic
numerology even now recognized
that every letter
has a numeric effect.
>>CARLSON: Yeah.
And I think probably modern
numerology derives ultimately
from these ancient systems.
But they were basically on
units, tens, and hundreds, see?
Now, 9 in that was sort of the
completion of the first decad.
So it had this symbolism
of completion, right?
But like you just said, so
many of these sacred numbers,
if you reduce them
kabbalistically, you
take this single digit-- let's
take the number of, let's say,
we could take the number
of miles in the moon.
2,160 miles measures the moon.
Now, we only get this
number, of course,
if we use miles, not kilometers
or anything else, miles.
Now, 2,160, if we add 2 and
1 and 6, of course, we get 9.
>>REGINA: Reduces to 9.
>>CARLSON: Right?
Now, in the
so-called Great Year,
the model of this
great cycle that
was recognized by many
of the ancient cultures,
which is actually a real
astronomical phenomenon.
It's the precession
of the equinoxes.
>>REGINA: The equinoxes, yes.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
And so the Earth's
axis is swinging around
like this at 50
arcseconds per year.
That means that if
you think of a degree,
a degree is 60 minutes, right?
Each minute is 60 seconds.
So 50 arcseconds is
just a little less
than a minute of arc.
What does that translate into
in something that we can grasp?
OK.
If you're looking
at the full moon,
that 2,160-mile
diameter full moon, it,
to use the mathematical
term, subtends,
or covers one half of a degree.
So if you had two full
moons tangent to each other
in the sky, that's one degree.
If we had 720 of
them, like strung
on a string of beads that
would encompass the Earth,
each pair would be one degree.
OK.
So if we look at
the system itself
of dividing a circle, 360
degrees times 60 times
60, all of those--
>>REGINA: It all keeps
reducing it back out to 9.
>>CARLSON: They all
come reducing back to 9.
Yeah.
In one full circle, if we take
just the number of seconds,
right, seconds of arc,
which are extremely tiny
and have no practical daily use,
but are important, for example,
if you're trying to measure
the proper motion of a star,
a distant star, against the
backdrop of a galaxy, where
it's so small you need
these really refined numbers
to do it, right?
So astronomers will
use arcseconds.
But in a full circle,
there's 1,296,000, 1,296,000.
You add those up, and you're
ultimately going to get 9.
>>REGINA: 9.
>>CARLSON: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And all the
geometrical structures.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
>>REGINA: That was
really interesting.
>>CARLSON: The Platonic solids.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>CARLSON: Yeah, right.
>>REGINA: Doesn't matter if
it's tetrahedron, octahedron,
icosahedron, dodecahedron,
star tetrahedron--
>>CARLSON: Yes.
>>REGINA: --keeps coming back.
It all comes back to 9.
>>CARLSON: Comes back to 9.
Yeah.
And so I think,
again, we're looking
at our number systems
are expressive of this--
ultimately if you want to
think of it as designed,
this cosmic design.
Whatever it is, there's this
underlying template of reality.
And it's expressed
in the architecture
of the solar system, in the
architecture of a galaxy,
of a spiral galaxy.
It's expressed in
the number systems
because the number systems
we have evolved essentially
come from us.
A denary system is
based upon the fact
that there's 5 and 5 is 10.
And then, you see, if you
combine the 10 with the 6
is where we come up
with what's referred
to as the sexigesimal
system, which
is the division of
a circle into 360.
I think mathematical
historians have suggested
that the Sumerians are the
first ones in history who
are recognized to have
used a sexigesimal system.
And it is believed that they
did so because they believed
that, once upon a time,
the length of the year
was exactly 360 days.
>>REGINA: That's what I
was going to get to next.
Go ahead.
Let's talk about cycles
of time and how 9 factors
in repeatedly.
>>CARLSON: Well, when we look
at the full precessional cycle,
right now, it's
measured-- it's slightly
more than 50
arcseconds per year.
We don't know if
that is necessarily
going to hold exactly steady
throughout the whole cycle,
right?
It's just that--
>>REGINA: Just what
it's doing now.
>>CARLSON: It's
what it's doing now.
And in fact, it's
likely that that's not
going to be constant
throughout the whole system.
But the traditional number
associated with the Great Year
is 25,920 years.
If you open an
astronomy textbook,
oftentimes it'll round
it off to 26,000, right,
and they figure
that's close enough.
Certainly 25,920
is actually closer
to what the real number
would be if it was slightly
more than 50 arcseconds.
But if you do assume it
rounded off at 50 arcseconds,
then it works out to be
one degree every 72 years,
OK, which is interesting
because that's very, very close
to an average human lifespan.
Now, one degree, if you
think of the Great Year
model, this circle, and it's
the vernal equinox moving
through each of the
12 constellations,
each of those 12 constellations
has a sign associated with it.
The constellation gave
its name to the sign.
Now, the constellations
themselves
vary in size considerably.
But the signs that
bear those same names,
they have been idealized at
exactly 1/12 of the circle.
And so it bears the same
relation as the 12 months
due to the annual
year, the solar year,
the 12 hours on the clock face.
And now we've got the 12
months of the Great Year.
And if you take
1/12 of that 25,920,
it's 2,160 years,
which is interesting
because now we just said
that the moon measures
in miles in 2,160 miles.
But the month of the Great
Year-- and the word "month"
essentially comes from the word
"moon," right, is 2,160 years.
Now we have the same number
in one hand measuring
a spatial relationship,
on the other hand,
a temporal relationship.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>CARLSON: So time and space
linked by this common number.
Of course, then the
skeptic says, yeah,
but that's only if
you measure in miles.
But then I point
out, but again, see,
the mile is derived from the
human yardstick because a mile,
the word itself mile
comes from the Latin mil,
which means 1,000.
And a mile has always
been traditionally
1,000 human paces.
>>REGINA: And I
wondered about that.
But a pace is actually
not one step, but two.
>>CARLSON: Two.
>>REGINA: It's the completed.
So people get tripped up when
they hear that the first time.
I thought, no, that's not right.
A normal pace is only
about 2, 2 and 1/2 feet.
And then I thought,
oh, wait a minute.
It's a full pace.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
If you're going to try
to mark off 1,000 paces,
what's going to be
easier, counting
every step, or every time--
>>REGINA: One, two,
>>CARLSON: --saying your
right foot hits the ground?
>>REGINA: Exactly, yeah.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
>>REGINA: So I just wanted
to clarify that for someone
listening saying, uh-uh.
Yes.
>>CARLSON: Yeah.
And the ratio between
the average human pace
and the length of the
average human foot is 5.28.
And so 1,000 of those
gives us the 5,280 feet--
>>REGINA: So it's organic.
>>CARLSON: --of the mile.
And it's very organic, yes.
And it's based on that
ratio between-- and see,
that was considered to
be a very special ratio.
See, it's our feet that
anchors to the Earth, isn't it?
It's our pace that moves us
about the face of the Earth,
right?
Well, in the Book of
Revelation, the climactic book
of the Bible, St.
John the Divine
is given this vision of the
Holy City descending out
of heaven, right, and he
describes it as a cube.
"And the city
lieth foursquare--"
and the length and the
height and the breadth of it
are equal, 12,000
furlongs, right?
What is a furlong?
Well, anybody out
there who likes
to bet on the races, horse
races, knows what a furlong is.
It's one eighth of a
mile, or 660 feet, right?
Now, the mean
diameter of the Earth
is very close to 7,920 miles.
Now, the Earth varies because
it's really an oblate spheroid.
It spins on its axis, and
because it's plastic somewhat,
it bulges towards the equator.
>>REGINA: It's
got a belly bulge.
>>CARLSON: Got a belly bulge.
Yeah, right.
And thankfully, it does
because that belly bulge
keeps it stable.
Without that, it's going
to be rocking chaotically.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>CARLSON: And probably
the highest life
form on Earth would be
something very, very primitive.
>>REGINA: Yeah, an amoeba.
>>CARLSON: Yeah,
an amoeba, exactly.
OK.
But now if you take
an idealized sphere
to represent the Earth that
would have the same surface
area and volume
as the Earth, it's
basically a sphere
7,920 miles in diameter.
Now, it's somewhat more than
the mean diameter of the Earth,
but it's been frequently
used as-- oftentimes,
you even see it rounded
off to 8,000 miles.
But 7,920 miles is close enough.
And it's also the
diameter of the Earth
if you drew a diameter, say,
from the Tropic of Cancer
in the Northern Hemisphere
to the Tropic of Capricorn
in the Southern, 7,920 miles.
OK.
And of course, think
about 7 plus 9 plus 2
is 18, it gives us a 9, right.
OK.
So now let's go back to
the furlong that we find.
The furlong is derived
from-- the original writing
of it was in Greek, and the
word was stade, from which
we get the word stadium.
Because it was the
length of the footrace,
or the race around the stadium.
See?
That's where we get the stade.
The English counterpart to the
Greek stade was the furlong,
and it's one eighth of the
English mile, or 660 feet.
Now, if you take the
ratio of the furlong
to the inch, which is
derived from the width
of the human thumb, it's 7,920.
So that furlong--
and I've done this.
I've gone out with a long
fiberglass tape on a parking
lot and marked out a furlong.
And then if you sit there
and you put your thumb down,
your thumb to that furlong
is exactly the same
as a mile to the Earth.
>>REGINA: Oh, you're
diligent, yeah.
But no.
I mean, that's why
you're able to bring
such extraordinary correlations
between these numbers.
>>CARLSON: Yeah.
I mean, I've tutored
lots of kids in math,
and that's one of the things
that I always have fun doing.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
I wish you'd been
my math teacher.
I slept through most of that.
>>CARLSON: OK.
Now, let's take the next step.
We go to 12,000 furlongs.
Well, if you take
12,000 furlongs
and convert that to feet, 12,000
times 660 is 7,920,000 feet,
or the diameter of
the Earth raised
three orders of magnitude,
which is very interesting.
But now if we take and
translate that into some number
that we can grasp, I
mean, who can picture
what 7,920,000 feet is, right?
Convert it to miles.
You divide it by 5,280
to convert it to miles,
and it's 1,500 miles, right?
Now, let's go 1,500 miles.
What's 1,500 miles?
It's not as big as the moon.
That's 2,160, right?
It's considerably
smaller than the Earth.
It's smaller than any of the
planets in the solar system.
It is actually about the size
of what an astronomer would
call a planetesimal, right?
Anyways, take the
diameter of the Earth
and set it in relation
to this diameter
of this hypothetical holy
city, and what you discover
is that ratio is exactly 5.28,
the ratio of the human pace
to the human foot.
>>REGINA: Yeah, yeah,
yeah, 1,280, yeah.
>>CARLSON: Yeah, it is.
And this could go
on and on and on.
>>REGINA: That's the point.
I mean, in your
presentations, you
have tables that show
these direct correlations
and these reductions.
And after a while, you
say, OK, I've got it.
So that leads to much
bigger questions, of course,
like how in the world
can this happen?
But let's talk about two
other numbers, 144, 144.
Most people when
they think of 144,
other than the inches
in a square foot,
they're looking at 144,000 that
are saved upon the Rapture.
That's probably-- those are the
two most common thoughts when
it comes to the number
144 or 144,0000.
What is it actually?
Why is that number associated
with salvation, for example,
in that text?
>>CARLSON: Well, it
shows up-- geometrically,
it shows up in the
star tetrahedron.
You know what a
star tetrahedron?
>>REGINA: Yes, I do.
>>CARLSON: OK.
You have a
tetrahedron, which is--
>>REGINA: I live in Sedona.
They're everywhere.
I have one hanging in my window.
>>CARLSON: All right.
Star tetrahedron.
Well, each tetrahedron is
measured by 720 degrees.
So the star tetrahedron was
measured by 1,440 degrees.
So there's a geometric
correlation to that.
In the Book of
Revelations, it's the wall
surrounding the Holy
City that's measured
by 144 cubits, these things.
Now, the standard Hebrew
cubit was a foot and a half.
So then if you convert
144 cubits to feet,
you get 216 feet,
or again, times 10
is the diameter of the moon.
So it's one of those key
numbers within this pattern,
within this hierarchy of
fractal self-similarity.
There's a story about
Joseph of Arimathea,
who removed the body of
Christ from the cross
and carried the holy grail
into Britain and founded
Glastonbury.
>>REGINA: Glastonbury, yeah.
Right.
>>CARLSON: Right.
And in the stories, he
created a small circular hut,
and then it was surrounded
by 12 huts around it,
where each of his 12
disciples would live.
OK?
This is a model right there
of the Holy City, you see?
It's the model that we find
over and over again in Jesus
with 12 disciples,
Hercules with 12 labors,
Buddha with 12 disciples, right?
It goes on.
And geometrically, if
you have 12 spheres
of exactly the same size,
they will cluster perfectly
around a 13th.
You see?
So you have this
geometric clustering.
So in all of this stuff, there's
a geometric analog, you see.
And so I think what we're
ultimately talking about here
is we're looking behind
the outer forms of things
to see that there is a
pattern behind the outer form.
And we can recognize and
describe this pattern
by means of these
numbers, and these numbers
can describe patterns
both in space and in time.
>>REGINA: And in time.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
>>REGINA: And supposedly
Solon's information
about ancient
Atlantis was that it
was laid out on these exact
same numeric principles.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
What we get from there
is that there is a model.
In fact, I have created with
my architectural software
a model of the Atlantean city
based upon Plato's description.
>>REGINA: And didn't they
use the word stade as well?
>>CARLSON: They used
the word stade, yes.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
Each of these--
>>REGINA: Which would
have been passed
down to the Greeks and
Egyptians, Greeks, Romans,
and so forth.
>>CARLSON: Because
Plato's "Dialogues"
are written in Greek.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARLSON: So he would
have used the word stade.
But according to the
transmission, Plato,
it was Critias the Younger who
got it from his grandfather
Critias the Elder who
got it from, I believe,
his uncle Dropides,
who got it from Solon.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CARLSON: Right.
>>REGINA: It was
a couple hundred
years removed, as I recall.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
It was couple hundred
years removed.
Exactly, exactly.
And according to
Plato's account,
it was transferred
to Solon on by
these elderly Egyptian
priests, who presumably
would have preserved
this knowledge
for many, many centuries.
>>REGINA: So the point being,
OK, there are lots of points.
First of all, we have
this amazing overlay
of sacred numbers and forms
through time and space
that our whole life is imbued
with, everything on our planet,
our cosmos is imbued with.
So I mean, that begs the
question, how did that happen?
There has to be some kind
of intelligence involved.
What is your perception of how
all of this grace came to be?
>>CARLSON: Well, this is
the teleological question.
Is it design?
And if you're oriented
to-- excuse me--
if you're oriented towards
that interpretation, as I am,
yes, it reflects intelligence
throughout the universe.
>>REGINA: An extreme
intelligence.
>>CARLSON: Extreme intelligence.
And that what we're
seeing here is a glimpse
of this ultimate
pattern, which serves
as the matrix upon which the
whole of creation is sustained.
That's how I look at it.
And we're ultimately derived
from that same pattern.
So we're like
walking embodiments
of these cosmic relationships.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARLSON: And--
>>REGINA: I'm sorry, go ahead.
>>CARLSON: Well, so
that ultimately we're
referring all of these things
back to the human dimension.
And then, again, the
idea of the temple
is the mean that
serves-- because anytime
you've got two incommensurable
numbers in mathematics, the way
to bring them into harmony is
to introduce this third that
relates to each of
them in a certain way
and then can serve as a
unifying force between them.
That was a function
of the sacred temple.
It served as the geometrical
mean between the human scale
and the planetary scale.
>>REGINA: And probably the
most significant of all those
would be the Great Pyramid.
>>CARLSON: Certainly yes.
In our day and age,
the most significant
is the Great Pyramid,
which embodies
this incredible geometry
based upon the golden section.
>>REGINA: Same
thing, same numbers.
It all keeps coming back to
the same thing reflective
of Earth's dimensions herself.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
And if we scale
the Great Pyramid
up by a factor of
43,200, which is
one of the preeminent
sacred numbers.
And in fact, if
you think of this.
In a 24-hour day, Earth
turns on its axis.
Once that 24-hour
day is measured
between a point on the
surface of the Earth
and the position of the
sun-- so that if you picture
the sun as an orb with
a very precise dot
right in the center, just like
the astrological symbol, right?
OK
Now, Earth turns on its axis.
And each time a meridian
line exactly lines up
with the center of the sun,
that's one 24-hour day.
OK.
24 hours times 60 is 1,440.
So there's 1,440
minutes in that cycle.
Then you multiply that times
60, and it's 86,400, right?
Add one zero on the
end of that, and it's
864,000, the measure of the
sun's diameter in miles, right?
It's also the measure
of one of the great ages
in Vedic system
called the Dwapara
Yuga, which was 864,000 years.
And the whole system of
the yugas was based--
>>REGINA: Cycle of Brahma.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
But the yugas, the kalpas,
the whole cycle of Brahma
was based upon this
number 432, right, 432.
So we find that showing up in
frequencies in musical scales.
In, I think, the
Phrygian mode, I believe,
is where you find 432.
I would have to reference
my notes on that
because I'm not a
professional musician,
but it's been pointed
out to me by musicians
that these numbers are
embedded in the musical scale.
I think it's the
higher octave of C
and the octave is right in there
about 243 cycles per second.
But then the next octave up is
528 cycles per second, right?
>>REGINA: Right.
That's correct, yeah.
>>CARLSON: OK.
So there's that 528
relationship again.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>CARLSON: OK.
But in the yugas,
in the kalpas, it's
based upon this number 432,000.
432,000 times 2,
864,000, times 3
is 1,296,000 years
in this great cycle.
Well, remember I said that
the total number of seconds
in a circle geometrically
is 1,296,000?
So again, now the same
number measuring space
and measuring time.
>>REGINA: And the thing is,
people from many, many-- no one
even knows how far
back-- understood this.
>>CARLSON: Right.
>>REGINA: They knew it.
And this was the language of
the planet and of the cosmos.
And the people and
those with knowledge
were imbued with this knowledge.
We forgot it all,
for good reason.
And that it comes
to the cycles--
our second conversation is
going to be about the cycles
and where they
indicate catastrophe.
>>CARLSON: Yes.
>>REGINA: Because there's
a natural beginning
and end to everything.
>>CARLSON: Right.
>>REGINA: And so that's
conversation two.
We only have a few
minutes left in this one,
and I want to get to a couple
more numbers before we go.
And then we'll start fresh on
that subject when we come back.
>>CARLSON: OK.
>>REGINA: OK.
360.
Once upon a time,
there were considered
to be 360 days in the year.
That makes perfect sense
based on all these numbers.
305 doesn't make
any sense-- I mean,
365 doesn't make any sense.
And you can get into
some esoteric background.
I talked to Jose Arguelles
before he died about this,
and he had a very specific
opinion about how that
got inserted into our matrix.
In the time when
365 were used, you
said that five of those
days were out of sync
and considered unlucky.
So let's talk about that
for a couple minutes.
>>CARLSON: Well, I think--
>>REGINA: Why did we ever move
out of 360 days to the year?
>>CARLSON: I don't know
the answer to that.
See, there's two possible
interpretations of that.
A literal
interpretation, I guess,
there was once a time
when the year was
360 days relative to the sun.
OK?
And that kind of brings us back
to what you were bringing up
in our first conversation
was this relationship
between the Earth and
the sun maybe perhaps
being sort of out of sync.
The other thing is is that if
we look at all of the planets,
we can see that with a little
bit of tweaking and adjustment
the orbital periods
of all the planets
will fall into line with
these sacred numbers,
but none of them
hit exactly, right?
Now, it's kind of like perhaps--
here's one possible metaphor.
If you have a machine that's
based upon critical timing,
like just your
automobile, for example.
You know what happens
when your automobile when
the timing gets off.
Blump, blump, blump.
It's not smooth, right?
I look at the solar
system as if maybe somehow
it's slightly out of
phase, out of adjustment.
And maybe it never was.
I'm not saying that it ever was.
But the way I look
at it is that if we
look at these patterns
and the numbers derived
from these patterns, I
think maybe one possible way
to interpret this
is that somehow
the ancient peoples
on this planet
had such an intuitive or
intellectual understanding
of this that they were
able to actually describe
the idealized
blueprint of creation.
And that gives us a
standard upon which
to compare the
idealized blueprint
with the actual real model
that we're inhabiting.
As a builder, I know
that there's always
a deviation between
the blueprints
as the architect draws them and
the final structure that gets
built.
>>REGINA: So that could be the
simple answer to how we ended
up with those five extra days.
>>CARLSON: Yes, or could be.
Now, another
possibility, though,
is that something upset
the balance of things,
and that's where this extra
five and a half days comes from.
I don't know, and I don't
know that anybody does know.
>>REGINA: One more
question very quickly
because we're about out of time.
666.
How has that been misconstrued
into the mark of the beast?
>>CARLSON: OK.
666 has traditionally been a
number associated with the sun.
And typically, I think you
have to look at it this way.
For example, if you
look at the Earth right
now orbiting the sun, every
second that goes by the Earth
has moved in that orbital circle
18.5 miles per second, right,
18.5.
Anybody can do the math on it.
And what you'll see
is that what that
translates into as miles per
hour is 66,600 miles per hour.
Now, there are a
number of-- going back
to what we were talking
about earlier-- the Gematria,
the numerical value of words.
There are a number of
key words and names
in both the Old and
New Testament that
have the numerical value
of 666, and they're all
associated with the
sun one way or another.
>>REGINA: How did it take
a negative connotation
as almost demonic?
>>CARLSON: Well, OK, a simple
way of thinking of that
is imagine yourself naked
in the middle of the desert.
The sun isn't going to feel
like such a benevolent force
at that point.
Now, put yourself--
>>REGINA: Still, that's
a rather skewed--
>>CARLSON: Extreme.
>>REGINA: --extreme view--
>>CARLSON: It is.
>>REGINA: --of the sun.
>>CARLSON: But on
the other hand,
see, this gets us into a whole
other interesting question
regarding the
variability of the sun.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARLSON: And the
assumption that the sun is--
>>REGINA: I see
where you're going.
>>CARLSON: Yeah, yeah.
The assumption that the
sun is a steady state.
And what we find
is that cultures
that lived in tropics or
in desert environments
have a different relationship
with the sun then,
say, the Scandinavians.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>CARLSON: So I think you can
look at it-- in most cases,
yeah, we, of course, look at
the sun as a benevolent force.
But there may be
times when it could be
perceived as not so benevolent.
>>REGINA: We're going
to end on that note
and pick it up on the same note.
>>CARLSON: OK.
>>REGINA: OK.
Thank you so much, Randall.
>>CARLSON: This is fun.
>>REGINA: Mm-hmm.
In our next
conversation, we're going
to be speaking about
these cosmic patterns
and cycles of catastrophe.
According to
Randall, these events
have been encoded in
myth, sacred geometry,
and mystical architecture
throughout the ages,
telling us of our history and
warning us of upcoming events.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Gaiam TV.
[MUSIC PLAYING]